Indian cuisine consists of a variety of regional and traditional cuisines native to the Indian subcontinent.
Given the diversity in soil, climate, culture, ethnic groups, and occupations, these cuisines vary substantially and use locally available spices, herbs, vegetables, and fruits.

Indian food is also heavily influenced by religion, in particular Hinduism and Islam, cultural choices and traditions.

Historical events such as invasions, trade relations, and colonialism have played a role in introducing certain foods to this country. 
The Columbian discovery of the New World brought a number of new vegetables and fruit to India. 
A number of these such as potatoes, tomatoes, chillies, peanuts, and guava have become staples in many regions of India.

Indian cuisine has shaped the history of international relations; the spice trade between India and Europe was the primary catalyst for Europe's Age of Discovery.[4] Spices were bought from India and traded around Europe and Asia.
 Indian cuisine has influenced other cuisines across the world, especially those from Europe (especially Britain), the Middle East, Southern African, East Africa, Southeast Asia, North America, Mauritius, Fiji, Oceania, and the Caribbean.

History
Main article: History of Indian cuisine

Indian cuisine reflects an 8,000-year history of various groups and cultures interacting with the Indian subcontinent, leading to diversity of flavours and regional cuisines found in modern-day India. Later, trade with British and Portuguese influence added to the already diverse Indian cuisine



Kerala
Main article: Cuisine of Kerala

A traditional Kerala Sadhya
Contemporary Kerala food includes vegetarian and non-vegetarian dishes. Fish and seafood play a major role in Kerala cuisine, as Kerala is a coastal state. An everyday Kerala meal in most households consists of rice with fish curry made of sardines, mackerel, seer fish, king fish, pomfret, prawns, shrimp, sole, anchovy, or parrotfish, (mussels, oysters, crabs, squid, scallops are not rare), and vegetable curry and stir-fried vegetables with or without coconut traditionally known as thoran or mizhukkupiratti. As Kerala has large number of inland water bodies, freshwater fish are also abundant, and part of regular meals. It is common in Kerala to have a breakfast with non-vegetarian dishes in restaurants, in contrast to other states in India. Chicken or mutton stews, lamb, chicken, beef, pork, egg curry, and fish curry with tapioca for breakfast are also widely enjoyed.



Kerala style prawns roast–Kerala being a coastal state has different varieties of sea food preparations
Coconuts grow in abundance in Kerala, so grated coconut and coconut milk are commonly used for thickening and flavouring.[116] Kerala's long coastline and numerous rivers have led to a strong fishing industry in the state, making seafood a common part of the meal. Starchy food like Rice and tapioca forms the major part of Kerala's staple food , Having been a major region of spice cultivation and trade for thousands of years, the spices like black pepper, cardamom, clove, ginger, cumin and cinnamon finds extensive use in Kerala cuisine. Kerala sadhya, an elaborate vegetarian banquet prepared for festivals and ceremonies. A full-course sadhya, which consists of rice with about 20 different accompaniments and desserts is the ceremonial meal, eaten usually on celebrations such as marriages, Onam, Vishu, etc. and is served on a plantain leaf.

Most of Kerala's Hindus, except its Brahmin community, eats fish, chicken, beef, pork, eggs, and mutton.[118] The Brahmin are famed for their vegan cuisine, especially varieties of sambar and rasam. A thick vegetable stew popular in South and Central India called avial is believed to have originated in southern Kerala. The avial, eaten widely in the state, is an important vegetarian dish in Kerala sadya. In most Kerala households, a typical meal consists of rice served along with vegetables and fish or meat dishes. Kerala also has a variety of breakfast dishes like idli, dosa, appam, idiyappam, puttu, parotta and pathiri served with sambar, coconut chutney, mutta curry (egg curry), kadala (chickpea) curry, green peas, chicken curry, beef curry and mutton curry.[119]

The Muslim community of Kerala blend Arabian, North Indian, and indigenous Malabari cuisines, using chicken, eggs, beef, and mutton.[120] Thalassery biryani is the only biryani variant, which is of Kerala origin having originated in Talassery, in Malabar region. The dish is significantly different from other biryani variants.[121] Snacks like Pazham nirachathu, Unnakkai, Bread pola— made of bread, eggs, milk and a simple masala, Iftar preparations like Thari kanji, Kozhi pichuporichathu (shredded chicken), Pidi— a preparation of rice dumplings dunked in gravy,Irachi pathiri, Chatti pathiri, Meen pathiri, Neriya pathiri and Kannu vecha pathiri — roti varieties usually made of powdered rice, dishes like Kaai curry etc., are also contributions of Muslim community to the broad Kerala cuisine.[122] The Pathanamthitta region is known for raalan and fish curries. Appam along with wine and curries of duck, pork and cured beef are popular among Syrian Christians in Central Kerala.

Popular desserts are payasam (pudding) and halwa. Payasam, especially Ambalappuzha Paalpayasam also known as Gopala Kashayam (Krishnan's potion) prepared at the 17th century Ambalappuzha Sri Krishna swami temple, is a delicacy known for its unique and flavourful taste. Interestingly, on each day the paalpayasam is prepared only after (ritualistically) seeking due permission from the presiding deity — Shri Krishna.[123] Kerala has a number of paayasam varieties including but not limited to Paalpayasam, Vermicelli Payasam, Pradhaman, Ada Pradhaman, Chakka (Jackfruit) Pradhaman, Parippu Paayasam and more. Paayasam like Vermicelli Payasam (Semiya payasam) also finds a place in Iftar feast of Muslim communities in Kerala.

Halva is one of the most commonly found or easily recognized sweets in bakeries throughout Kerala, and originated from the Gujarathi community in Calicut.[124] Europeans used to call the dish "sweetmeat" due to its texture, and a street in Kozhikode where became named Sweet Meat Street during colonial rule. This is mostly made from maida (highly refined wheat), and comes in various flavours, such as banana, ghee or coconut. However, karutha haluva (black haluva) made from rice is also very popular.


cook rice
Rinse the rice,
Use the right ratio of water,
Add 2 parts water and 1 part rice to a large pot,
For slightly firmer rice,
use 1 part liquid to 2/3 parts rice,
Bring the water to a boil,
Once it's boiling, add a big pinch of salt,
Maintain a simmer,
Reduce heat to low, cover the pot with a tight fitting lid, and maintain a gentle simmer,
Cook without peeking or stirring,
Cook until the water is absorbed, about 18 minutes,
Try not to peek until the end of the cooking time so the steam doesn't escape, Whatever you do, don't mix the rice while it's cooking — this will lead to gummy rice,
Let the rice rest covered, Turn off the heat and let the rice sit, covered, for 10 minutes, During this time, the rice will steam for extra fluffy results,
Fluff the rice with a fork.


cook pulao
Step 1 Boil the rice or steam cook them,
Add 1/2 tsp salt and 1/2 tsp sunflower oil to the rice and boil it, Drain the water from boiled rice and allow it to cool by spreading it on a plate, You can also use cooked rice if you are in a jiffy,


Step 2 Saute all the veggies
Heat a pan with 1/4 cup of oil on a moderate flame,
Add ginger-garlic paste and fry till light brown,
You can add some green chillies as per your palate preference,
 Add all the vegetables like onions, chopped spring onions, capsicums,  
 Cook this mix of veggies and spices for some time by continuously stirring, Keep the sauteed vegetables aside,


 Step 3 Mix sauces in the veggies and cook with rice for 3-5 minutes
Take another pan and heat 1/4 cup of oil on a moderate flame, 
Add boiled rice and stir fry for 3 mins on sim flame,
 Now add all the sauteed vegetables to the pan and mix them well,
  Add soya sauce, vinegar, tomato sauce, green chilli sauce, black pepper powder, salt and mix well,
  Keep stirring on medium flame till all the sauces dry out, Turn off the heat and transfer fried rice to a serving bowl,

Step 4 Garnish and serve
Garnish it with some freshly chopped coriander leaves and serve with chilli paneer or manchurian,
 Make sure you try this recipe, rate it and let us know in the comments how it turned out to be.


Restaurants in mangalore

1 Taste The Delectable Seafood Of Karnataka: Machali

Address: Behind Ocean Pearl, Sharada Vidyalaya Rd, Kodailbail, Mangalore,

Timings: 11.30 AM to 3.30 PM, 7 PM to 10 PM ,

Average Cost: INR 800 for two people (approx)

2  An Award-Winning Restaurant By NDTV: Pallkhi Restaurant

Address: Tej Towers Balmatta Road, Opp Jyothi Cinema, Next to KMC, Mangalore 

Timings: 11.30 AM to 3.30 PM, 7 PM to 11 PM

Average Cost: INR 1,200 for two people (approx)



3 A Taste Of America: Sizzler Ranch

Address: Beatle Apartment, Nehru Ave Rd, Lalbagh, Mangalore 

Timings: 12 PM to 3.30 PM; 6.30 PM to 10.30 PM

Average Cost: INR 700 for two people (approx)

4 A Minimalist-Designed Place: Thyme Family Restaurant

Address: Bharath Mall, Bejai Road, Opp KSRTC Bus Stand, Mangalore 

Timings: 11.30 AM to 3.15 PM, 7.30 PM to 11 PM

Average Cost: INR 700 for two people (approx)

5 Home Away From Home: Giri Manja’s

Address: Bhavathi, Bunder, Mangalore

Timings: 11.30 AM to 3.30 PM

Average Cost: INR 500 for two people (approx)

6 Serving Some Incredibly Mouth-Watering Food: Maharaja Restaurant

Address: Bunts Hostel Road, Hampankatta, Mangalore

Timings: 11.30 AM to 3 PM; 6.30 PM to 11 PM

Average Cost: INR 700 for two people (approx) 

7 Experience An Extensive Seafood Platter: Gajalee Sea Food

Address: Circuit House Compound Kadri Hills Vasanth Vihar, Kadri, Mangalore

Timings: 10.30 AM to 3 PM; 6.30 PM to 11 PM

Average Cost: INR 750 for two people (approx)

8 Famous For Its Fish Fry: Hotel Narayana

Address: Mukhyaprana Temple Road, Bunder, Mangalore

Timings: 12 PM to 3.30 PM; 7 PM to 9.30 PM

Average Cost: INR 300 for two people (approx)

9 A Sense Of Rural Life: Madhuvan’s Village

Address: Airport Rd, Yeyyadi, Mangalore

Timings: 11.30 AM – 11.30 PM

Average Cost: INR 1000 for two people (approx)

10 A Go-To Breakfast Place: Janatha Deluxe

Address: Shaan Plaza Building, Opposite Prabhath Theatre, KS Rao Road, Mangalore

Timings: 7 AM –3.30 PM; 4.30 PM –10.30 PM

Average Cost: INR 500 for two people (approx)

11 One Of The Oldest Restaurants In Mangalore: New Taj Mahal Café

Address: Near Navabharath Circle, Kodailbail, Mangalore

Timings: 6 AM -9.30 PM

Average Cost: Rs 300 for two people (approx)

12 A Gourmet’s Paradise: Shetty Lunch Home

Address: Opposite Don Bosco Building, Balmatta, Mangalore

Timings: 11.30 AM -3.30 PM; 6.30 PM- 10.30 PM

Average Cost: INR 500 for two people (approx).



benifits of barley

Barley is rich in vitamins, minerals and other beneficial plant compounds

It’s available in many forms, ranging from hulled barley to barley grits, flakes and flour

Almost all forms of barley utilize the whole grain — except for pearl barley, which has been polished to remove some or all of the outer bran layer along with the hull

When consumed as a whole grain, barley is a particularly rich source of fiber, molybdenum, manganese and selenium, It also contains good amounts of copper, vitamin B1, chromium, phosphorus, magnesium and niacin 

Additionally, barley packs lignans, a group of antioxidants linked to a lower risk of cancer and heart disease.



Seasonal foods in india

Winter Season: Chestnuts , Grapefruit , Lemons  , Oranges

Spring Season: Apricots , Avocado , Mango

Summer Season: Blackberries, Blueberries, Nectarines,

Fall Season: Apples, Cranberries, Figs.


Famous food of Karnataka

Neer Dosa - Authentic Karnataka Food Item

Korri Gassi

Kundapura Koli Saaru

Mysore Masala Dosa

Allugedda

Mysore Pak

Coorg Pandi Curry

Haalbai

Bisi Bele Bath

Rava Kesari

Mangalorean Biryani

Kane Rava Fry

Udupi Sambar

Mango Chutney

Mysore Bonda

Sagu

Ennegai

Jolada Rotti

Ragi Mudde

Gojju

Khara Pongal

Chitranna

Tatte Idli

Chiroti

Maddur Vada

Pori Urundai.


What is unique in Mangalore

An assortment of pickles like happala, sandige and puli munchi are unique to Mangalore

 Khali (toddy), a country liquor prepared from the coconut flower's sap is a well-known liquor of Mangalore
 
 The vegetarian cuisine is same as Udupi cuisine.

